CS411 Team Assignment 1 - Proposal
Group 20 - Manish Patel, Ji Zhang, Chen Feng, Curtis Mason and Takamitsu Shirono 

One idea could be creating a scheduling application to work out conflicts with groups 
(starting with just 2 parties and then possibly expanding later), determining common meeting times,
and send reminders as necessary about these meetings. The database used could simply comprise each 
user’s availability/schedule and the application would use each user’s data to figure out the meeting 
times. The two APIs that could be useful here would be the Google Calendar API and the Microsoft 
Teams API. Third-party authentication, through Amazon Cognito for example, would work here since each 
user would need to log in to move forward with scheduling with others. Although not final, React or 
React Native would make up the front-end and Python on the backend (i.e. Flask and Javascript). 

Another idea could be a chat service that we would develop such that developers can use our developer
friendly API to send messages and maintain conversations with their users over our network. This would
be more of a service, where users could add chat to a platform. A SQL database could be useful for 
storing the messages/conversations that each user partakes in.

A third idea, in case the previous one may not fulfill the requirements, is a gym equipment “guide” app 
for which users can figure out how to use certain machines or types of equipment at the gym. We can 
categorize all types of equipment and let the user sort by the specific brands of the machines or even 
the specific body parts that the machine would be exercising. Some sort(s) of fitness API(s) could be 
useful in adding functionality for tracking different activities at the gym or nutrition records 
(i.e. macros), so that the users can have a one-stop application for many of their gym needs. A database 
of each user’s personal information (e.g. height, weight, etc.) along with the actual database of the 
different equipment and machines would be necessary. 

